# Bigfoot Sightings

Authors: Andreas Hove Rising | fbr426, Victor Lynge Skogø | pld452,  Kostas Valeckas | cpf125 

This repository is a student project for the course 'Databases and Informations Systems' (DIS) at
DIKU, University of Copenhagen, 2024.

This repository uses code from the DIS project 'GreenGroceries' 
as a template (link only available for course participants): 

https://absalon.ku.dk/courses/72770/files/8290765?module_item_id=2330375


## Initialization ✔

Clone / download repository files and run the following to install the required packages (preferably within a venv):

    pip install -r requirements.txt
-------------------------------------

### For Ubuntu:

We have experienced issues with installing psycopg2 on some Ubuntu distributions. If issues are encountered, try:

	sudo apt-get install build-essential
	sudo apt-get install python3-pip
	pip3 install psycopg2

, and then rerun the pip install command above.

------------------------------------

Create a new database in pgAdmin (or whatever you use for your postgreSQL DB managment) preferably named BigfootSightings and add the following to your .env file 
(NOTE: this file will likely be hidden. Normally .env should be a private file containing user secrets, in this
case we have kept it inside the project files for easy
access for the TAs):

    SECRET_KEY=<secret_key>
    DB_USERNAME=postgres || <postgres_user_name>
    DB_PASSWORD=<postgres_user_password>
    DB_NAME=BigfootSightings || <postgres_db_name>
    
 Then, initiate the dabase by adding the local path to the repository in the `init_db.py` script in the `utils` directoy, and then when in utils directory, run:
 
    python3 init_db.py

Set the FLASK\_APP envirorment variable to __\_\_init\_\_.py__ (this you might need to do before every new session): 

macOS/Linux:

	export FLASK_APP=__init__.py

Windows:

	set FLASK_APP=__init__.py
 	
Finally, start serving the website with (run from the same directory as the __\_\_init\_\_.py__ file):

  flask run

Open you web-browser, and visit:
  http://127.0.0.1:5000

This procedure to launch the website has been tested on Windows 10 and Ubuntu 22.04.4 LTS, but not on any macOS distributions.


## How to use the website

You can view and search any bigfoot sightings without a user. 

To register a bigfoot sighting, you need to sign up for a user (right upper corner).
After sign-up, you will be logged in automatically. Your user will be stored
in the database, and can be re-used.

The website should be somewhat stable - but the search functionality is not
tested extensively. It is very likely the website would crash for a combination
of unexpected search input.

In a case where an evaluator does not suceed to launch the website, we have also made a short video presentation at this link:

https://sid.erda.dk/share_redirect/a8isfhiyCT

## Notes on assigment formalia

You can find SQL queries being used in `queries.py`.

You can find regex being used in both `utils/init_db.py` (in cleaning up data), and in search queries in `queries.py`.


## Disclaimer

This is a student project, focused on very limited functionality.
Should you be a github by-stander that has found this code by accident, please: 
DO ***NOT*** HOST THIS ON A OPEN PORT. THE WEBSITE HAS MANY SAFETY FLAWS - 
it is made with assumption that this website would be localhosted in a closed network. 

BigfootSightings is a fun idea based on a dataset from https://data.world/timothyrenner/bfro-sightings-data - it is all done in satirical fashion. The authors of this project
support evidence-based science.


## Graphics

Any images have been AI-generated by: https://deepai.org/machine-learning-model/text2img


